Creating use cases for "other components" (#1871)
saucelabs/sauce-docs: docs/api-testing/use-cases/set-variable.md

---
id: set-variable
title: Different ways to set a variable
sidebar_label: Setting up Variables
description: Different ways to set a variable
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

> The **SET (Variable)** component allows you to create variables from a string to a payload. In this guide, we will show all the ways you can create a variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **SET (Variable)** component allows you to create variables from a string to a payload. In this guide, you will learn about all the ways you can create a variable.
```

> The **SET (Variable)** component allows you to create variables from a simple string to a payload. In this guide, we will show all the ways you can create a variable.

Author: ```suggestion
The **SET (Variable)** component allows you to create variables from a string to a payload. In this guide, we will show all the ways you can create a variable.
```

## What You'll Need

- A Sauce Labs account ([Log in](https://accounts.saucelabs.com/am/XUI/#login/) or sign up for a [free trial license](https://saucelabs.com/sign-up)).
- An existing API Testing Project. For details on how to create one, see [API Testing Quickstart](/api-testing/quickstart/).
- Familiarity with the [API Testing Composer](/api-testing/composer/).

## Mode: String

This mode generates a String variable, which can be a static value or a variable taken from the response payload. If it is a static value you just have to write it and the engine will take it as is.

Consider the following example:

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/api-testing/set-string.png')} alt="Set static string" />

```yaml
- id: set
  var: product
  mode: string
  value: t-shirt
```

In the above example the variable `product` will always have the value `t-shirt`.

> To make it dynamic and let the engine evaluate the value every time the test will be executed, you have to write it in ${...} brackets.

Author: ```suggestion
If you write it in ${...} brackets, you will make it dynamic and let the engine evaluate the value every time the test will be executed.
```

> Consider the following response payload and let’s say it has been stored in the `payload` variable:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider the following response payload and assume that it has been stored in the `payload` variable:
```

```json
{
  "id": 1,
  "name": "Baseball Cap",
  "price": 29.99,
  "category": "1",
  "description": "This is product 1!",
  "quantity": 5,
  "imageURL": "http://image.com",
  "color": [
    "blue",
    "yellow"
  ],
  "createdAt": "2021-11-28T21:58:43.461Z",
  "updatedAt": "2021-11-28T21:58:43.461Z"
}
```

If you write the following:

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/api-testing/set-var-dynamic.png')} alt="Set dynamic value"/>

```yaml
- id: set
  var: product
  mode: string
  value: ${payload.name}
```

The engine will evaluate the variable value every time the test will be executed. In the above scenario the variable `product` will contain the value `Baseball Cap` but if the response is the following:

```json
{
  "id": 2,
  "name": "Long Sleeve Shirt",
  "price": 39.99,
  "category": "1",
  "description": "This is product 2!",
  "quantity": 7,
  "imageURL": "http://image.com",
  "color": [
    "blue",
    "yellow",
    "red"
  ],
  "createdAt": "2021-11-28T21:58:43.461Z",
  "updatedAt": "2021-11-28T21:58:43.461Z"
}
```

The value will be `Long Sleeve Shirt`, without changing your test.

## Mode: Data

> Using this mode, the variable will be evaluated (like the [Expression](/api-testing/composer/expressions/) field), therefore the variable type can be everything. The variable type will depend on the object being evaluated.

Reviewer: Not sure if this edit is correct, but I don't think "everything"  was the right word either. 
```suggestion
Using this mode, the variable will be evaluated (as ab [Expression](/api-testing/composer/expressions/) field), therefore the variable type can be any type. The variable type will depend on the object being evaluated.
```

In the Data field, you need to enter a single line expression that returns a value.

For example, you can create a new array in this way:

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/api-testing/set-data-array.png')} alt="Set array"/>

```yaml
- id: set
  var: product
  mode: object
  object: '["Bluetooth Headphones","Long Sleeve Shirt","Baseball Cap"]'
```

> Then, you can iterate over it using the `each` component or you can invoke a specific item using `${product[1]}` where the number inside the square brackets identifies the position of the item you want to reach out, starting from 0.

Reviewer: Not sure what "you want to reach out" means, maybe sb print or search? 
```suggestion
Then, you can iterate over it using the `each` component or you can invoke a specific item using `${product[1]}` where the number inside the square brackets identifies the position of the item you want to reach out, starting from 0.
```

    "description": "This is product 2!",
    "quantity": 7,
    "imageURL": "http://image.com",
    "color": [
      "blue",
      "yellow",
      "red"
    ],
    "createdAt": "2021-11-28T21:58:43.461Z",
    "updatedAt": "2021-11-28T21:58:43.461Z"
  },
  {
    "id": 3,
    "name": "Bluetooth Headphones",
    "price": 49.99,
    "category": "1",
    "description": "This is product 3!",
    "quantity": 50,
    "imageURL": "http://image.com",
    "color": [
      "green",
      "yellow"
    ],
    "createdAt": "2021-11-28T21:58:43.462Z",
    "updatedAt": "2021-11-28T21:58:43.462Z"
  }
]
```

If you write the following:

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/api-testing/set-data.png')} alt="Set data"/>

```yaml
- id: set
  var: product
  mode: object
  object: payload.filter(it=>it.name=='Bluetooth Headphones')
```

It will return the following object:

```json
{
  "id": 3,
  "name": "Bluetooth Headphones",
  "price": 49.99,
  "category": "1",
  "description": "This is product 3!",
  "quantity": 50,
  "imageURL": "http://image.com",
  "color": [
    "green",
    "yellow"
  ],
  "createdAt": "2021-11-28T21:58:43.462Z",
  "updatedAt": "2021-11-28T21:58:43.462Z"
}
```

## Mode: Language

> This is the most advanced way to create your variables. There are two different options available: `Javascript` and `Template`.

Author: ```suggestion
This mode is the most advanced way to create your variables. There are two different options available: `Javascript` and `Template`.
```

> This mode is the most advanced way to create your variables. There are two different options available: `Javascript` and `Template`.

Author: ```suggestion
This mode is the most advanced way to create your variables. The available options are: `Javascript` and `Template`.
```

#### Lang: Javascript

> In this mode you can create your variable by writing a Javascript script in the `Body` field. It can be a complete script with variable declarations or loops.

Author: ```suggestion
In this mode you can create your variable by writing a JavaScript script in the `Body` field. It can be a complete script with variable declarations or loops.
```

> For example, you have a JSON Web Token (JWT) token stored in the `token` variable and we need to decode it and return the JSON payload it was generated from:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you have a JSON Web Token (JWT) token stored in the `token` variable and you need to decode it and return the JSON payload it was generated from:
```

> For example, you have a JWT token stored in the `token` variable and we need to decode it and return the JSON payload it was generated from:

Author: ```suggestion
For example, you have a JSON Web Token (JWT) token stored in the `token` variable and we need to decode it and return the JSON payload it was generated from:
```

```
eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJpYXQiOjE2NTgyMzY1NjgsImV4cCI6MTY4OTc3MjU2OCwiYXVkIjoid3d3LmV4YW1wbGUuY29tIiwic3ViIjoiam9obi5kb2VAZXhhbXBsZS5jb20iLCJOYW1lIjoiSm9obiIsIlN1cm5hbWUiOiJEb2UiLCJFbWFpbCI6ImpvaG4uZG9lQGV4YW1wbGUuY29tIiwiUm9sZSI6WyJNYW5hZ2VyIiwiUHJvamVjdCBBZG1pbmlzdHJhdG9yIl19.DN7vKPlHkAy1hwYOYpUKDwkV0yD-KS2pdoc76aKPhm8
```

> To execute this, you need to write the following script inside the `Body` field:

Author: ```suggestion
To do so, you need to write the following script inside the `Body` field:
```

> To achieve this, you need to write the following script inside the `Body` field:

Author: ```suggestion
To execute this, you need to write the following script inside the `Body` field:
```

```javascript
var pieces = token.split('.')
var b64payload = pieces[1]
var decoded = Buffer.from(b64payload, 'base64').toString()
var json = JSON.parse(decoded)
return json
```

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/api-testing/set-javascript.png')} alt="Set javascript"/>

> That’s producing the following JSON:

Author: ```suggestion
That will produce the following JSON:
```

```json
{
  "iat": 1658236568,
  "exp": 1689772568,
  "aud": "www.example.com",
  "sub": "john.doe@example.com",
  "Name": "John",
  "Surname": "Doe",
  "Email": "john.doe@example.com",
  "Role": [
    "Manager",
    "Project Administrator"
  ]
}
```

Then, you can retrieve all the keys as `jsonData.iat` where `jsonData` is the variable name you entered in the `Variable` field.

#### Lang: Template

> In this mode you can create your own template in the same way as it is done for Request Body, the advantage here is that you can print the variable to check if all is correct (Body cannot be printed).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this mode, you can create your own template in the same way as it is done for Request Body, the advantage here is that you can print the variable to check if all is correct (Body cannot be printed).
```

> In this mode you can create your own template in the same way as it is done for Request Body, the advantage here is that you can print the variable in order to check if all is correct (Body cannot be printed).

Author: ```suggestion
In this mode you can create your own template in the same way as it is done for Request Body, the advantage here is that you can print the variable to check if all is correct (Body cannot be printed).
```

> For example, if you need to add a new product to your database, you can create the body for the (PUT) request and paste it in the `Body` field, and then print it out in a `Comment`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you need to add a new product to your database, you can create the body for the (PUT) request and paste it in the `Body` field, and then print it in a `Comment`.
```

> For example, if you need to add a new product in your database, you can create the body for the (PUT) request and paste the Body in the `Body` field and print it in a `Comment`.

Author: ```suggestion
For example, if you need to add a new product to your database, you can create the body for the (PUT) request and paste it in the `Body` field, and then print it out in a `Comment`.
```

```json
{
    "id": 4,
    "name": "T-Shirt",
    "price": ${price},
    "category": "1",
    "description": "This is product ${id}!",
    "quantity": 5,
    "imageURL": "http://image.com",
    "color": ["red", "green"],
    "createdAt": "${D.format (D.nowMillis(), 'yyyy-MM-DD')}",
    "updatedAt": "${D.format (D.nowMillis(), 'yyyy-MM-DD')}T${D.format(D.nowMillis(), 'HH:mm:ssz')}"
}
```

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/api-testing/set-template.png')} alt="Set template"/>

> <img src={useBaseUrl('img/api-testing/set-template-comment.png')} alt="Comment" width="700"/>

Reviewer: general comment for all screen shots: To be consistent with the rest of the screen shots, it would look better to grab with whole module in the images instead of having it cut off on the right.    As in the previous image. This can be fixed in a later PR. 
```suggestion
<img src={useBaseUrl('img/api-testing/set-template-comment.png')} alt="Comment" width="700"/>
```
